---
title: 'Why you should use Firefox instead of Chrome'
date: '2020-01-23'
template: 'post'
draft: false
category: Technology
tags:
  - Technology
  - Open Source
  - FOSS
  - Browser
  - Google
  - Rant
description: And why you should do so immediately, if you value your sanity and privacy.
featuredImage: "/media/firefox_switch.jpg"
featuredImagePreview: "/media/firefox_switch.jpg"
---

Google has been collecting enough of your data. I used to thought that YouTube
recommending me the relevant videos that I really love seeing is a great thing,
and when I slide left on my Android phone to look at Google Now, I can see all
the news relevant to me which is really convenient.

Until one day, I read an article about how the Internet now is unlike years ago
when it was created - a space where everyone can have an identity, independent
of their real life. If things messed up, you can create a new account, create a
new email, and you are free. Free here as in free speech, not free beer.

As social OAuth become more and more prevalent, and everywhere I go I click
"Sign in with Google Account" then I realize the problem. Google knows what I am
buying on Lazada and Shopee. Google knows what I am searching for - if I look
for a certain drug out of the blue, it can easily infer that I am bugged by a
certain sickness, and recommend me on where I go. I see the advertisements
during YouTube sessions, during Google Searches.

Heck, we have not even talked about Google Maps. That app is, hands down, the
single most powerful navigation application I have used and still cannot live
without. It knows EVERYWHERE you go. Wherever, whenever.

And not forgetting you are letting Google Chrome know all your web surfing
habits. If you thing you don't use it very often, pop open the Google Chrome on
your phone and you will know what I mean. Almost everyone I know have a few tabs
open at any time, and the range from 5-10 tabs is really the norm. Links your
friends sent you, they are redirected to Google via Chrome, unknowingly figuring
out who sent you the link - and thus who you know. It can map out the group of
people that you are close with, your family members, social circle and all - via
the extreme convenience and the ecosystem that they have. Ah, and Google Chrome
knows for sure what is your latest number, your latest address, and your full
name too - via the autofill feature wherever you go.

Before this sounds like a dystopian scene of how your data gets exploited, let
us look at another angle. As a computing student, when we heard someone got
themselves a new laptop, we will joke:

> Ah, I finally got enough RAM to open 5 Google Chrome tabs!

And that is not without reason. Via many friends' verification, Firefox consumes
much less memory than Google Chrome and still produces similar performance. I
used to recommend Firefox sparingly only to privacy-aware friends because of the
lag Firefox produces, but this is no longer true. The recent versions of
Firefox, around 70, has significant improvements on many levels. For example,
WebRender has been rolled out and promises much better rendering performance
than the traditional rendering method before Firefox Quantum. The Mozilla Gfx
Blog even wrote an article on how power usage is [DRAMATICALLY reduced here]\
(https://mozillagfx.wordpress.com/2019/10/22/dramatically-reduced-power-usage-in-firefox-70-on-macos-with-core-animation/).

## Skip me the sales, I want to port to [Firefox](https://www.mozilla.org/en-US/firefox/switch/) immediately!

![](/media/firefox_switch.jpg)

Well, if you are still not convinced, I recommend you to take
[Firefox](https://www.mozilla.org/en-US/firefox/switch/) for a whirl and feel
for yourself how different it is from Google Chrome. The truth is, you will take
less than 5 minutes to have ALL your history, cookies, passwords, form fills all
migrated from Google Chrome and you can start flying around in
[Firefox](https://www.mozilla.org/en-US/firefox/switch/) just like Google
Chrome. Only this time, you can have the peace of mind that
[Firefox](https://www.mozilla.org/en-US/firefox/switch/) not only blocks all
trackers on all sites by default (important!), it also ensures you that a
not-for-profit organization is helping you to connect to the rest of the
Internet. And the browser you are using now is built by the collective effort of
thousands of volunteers, writing code and fixing bugs in a transparent procedure
to ensure we can browse the Internet happily, and protected.
